when i was first starting it was like a fantacy. i wanted to make a different research and enjoyable research. this project is also reflect one of my old idea. In old days i wanted to create touch based system but should be extensible. specifically a macro keyboard. Now when i started I check a rough feasibility test and based on my knowledge i had the idea that this is feasible. because getting camera view and process it to identify the keys then detect touch. i have done a research. my first idea was to make fully customizable even without printing, just drawing. and no markers needed i thought through box detection i can caliberate the layout. after that i figure it out the homographyics. it needed 4 markers. then i realize i have to put markers. therefore i just planed to tell user to just draw 4 boxes on each corner and i detect them. with the more and more knowledge on image processing i realized these custom markers has no good viewing angles and they are very hard to detect also i had only basic camera, it's image quality not so good. therefore opencv was not able to detect boxes because the image distroed significanly. If i give user to custom draw, I realized it is not going to work. also i don't able to proceed the research because this camera quality. then i faced these problems. first one is camera quality not so good. i wanted the users able to use regular camera like mine with low resolutions but able to process. second is that if i give users ability to draw keyboard that will be even harder to detect. becaue their margin size, color, then lighiting everything affect the detection. therefore i have dicided to remove custom drawing but my concern is my major idea was to give ability to change layout to any layout. so i get middle point. i planed to print the layout as custom. so the users can draw their layout through computer and that will not break my major point where to give users freedom to use any layout. but it capt me from utlimate freedom where user is the one who draw his own diagram by hand. i noticed , it is very hard to keep light independency and versatility with that requirements. Firstly i though my plan like first i tell user to draw the layout, put plain black markers on corners and mesure size of them and distance between them and show that view to camera without puting hand on top of paper because it is initialization phase where i scan layout and identify button, their locations, markers, etc and load layout internally so user can assign actions to those keys. then user just type and i detect a touch, then using visible markers calculate homography and identify touch point to get the key. but it was not that easy. if i give that flexibility i have to limit users to specific angle, distance, and quality of the camera because i need to detect keys, markers. also users can draw freehand, which not exactly connected boxes. i tried free hand drawings and realized with low resolution camera, it is very hard to detect because of distotion. also it is very light sensitive. this light dependency, and other factors destroy my versatility. which makes this product very hard to use. so that i come with layout design through computers. in their i only avoid free land drawing. still user can draw any size boxes, and place any where. I fixed the margin sizes, and distances. because i then though detecting boxes now easy because they are printed and i have margin. but that also give the problem the far boxes still not able to detect and those plain four markers also not easy to detect. most of the time they covered by hand. if even one marker not visible, entier homography fail. Then i realized because now i'm making the design through computer i was able to save each key coordinates. Then i know exact measure menets. If i know the exact 4 coordinates then i can lay this layout on top of the page, then i don't want to detect boxes. even the boxes covered by hand i able to detect because now i'm not depend on box detection. that make the system easire. because previously i though to train another model to detect boxes. if that the case this will become much harder. somehow that problem was gone. but the new problem arise. If one hand cover a corner plain marker entier system is gone. so i realized because now i'm printing those i have freedom to check for detectable markers. then i have done a research and found about Aruco markers. i used them and printed on corners, then created seperate test application to detect and lay the layout visually so i can see. it worked. but new problem arise. these aruco markers give robustness but they are also affected by camera view. also when go to distance or tilted i realized the markers not detected. so i did another research on markers. then i come up with aruco, april tags, s tags. within these i realized the april tags are promising. so that i used them. supprisingly they had a good viwing angle and high detection capability even under extreme lighiting and angles. i tried with many images on internet to check whether april tags on those iamges are detectable. so yeah, it did. after that the next problem is 4 markers is not enough. because most of the time user hand cover it. then i realized to keep a margin and place multiple tags around the paper. then there are redundant markers. that gave good accracy. also i forgot so when using 4 markers i figure it out homography need a 4 corners so previous problem was that not all 4 markers visible. so that with april tags, i got location of each tag's 4 corners. then calcualte, which was a good succuss. but i realized even with 3 markers it is not very reliable. therefore i come up to place markers around page. i created the designer application for it. firstly it was written in custom-tkinter because it was a prototype. then the layout part is very reliable. also i used homography with 4 corners on each marker and it get reliable when multiple markers visible. so that was done. now the designer design it and print then it works. on printed thing i also added option where i noticed when printing sometimes the sizes are not matching. in that case i give users where users can mesure side width of a marker and entier it. so that using it i can caliberate entier layout. then came the touch detection. in their i wanted on any rotation or any angle to view. so i tried with CNN but i realized that is heavy and when lighen it is not able to detect much and need huge dataset. also i relaized detection cannot capt to just one frame, in one frame cannot detect a touch. so i realized we need set of frames. in that case i found LSTMs. so i decide to first capture data through CNN and then use LSTM. but i realized it make the scneario much worse because my second goal is that this application should runable without a GPU and should run on realtime without a GPU so on a standard CPU. therefore when searching i found google mediapipe. it has hand detection with 21 landmarks. then i decided to use it to detect the hand and capture only fingre local 64x64 frames and using CNN to detect. then i realized it also add more weight and make it harder to run on a CPU. then i come up with idea to completely remove CNN and instead keep only the mediapipe and LSTM. i also saw many researches uses shadow based approach. I wanted to light agnoistic way. so i though because now coordinates there i can use kinematics instead of shadow. so i can completely remove image detected after the mediapipe that make pipeline in high speed. so i realized mediapipe pre caliberate to run on CPU and it has high detection power. so i don't have to train a model to detect hand. also it is hand agnoistic and lighiting agnoistic. I also wanted to keep this application resolution independent. then i use mediapipe palm coordinates to make a coordinate system that not depend on the resolution or hand size. even hand close or far away, the coordinate system not break. then i realized odd thing where even my camera show 30fps when using mediapipe some jittering happen with my logic. so i created another python application and figure it out my camera is actually 13fps. so i though that will be vary on user cameras. if that happen it makes my model not working because my model works on timeline. if fps vary the speed vary. so i realized 12fps cap. most of regular cameras has 12fps above fps. so with 12fps i have near real time detection and also can standardize. so lstm always get hand movement without affecting any camera fps things. with those i created my next python application to capture training data and annotate. firstly i capture different camera and different frame rate touch videos on hand in a flat surface. with 5 different people hands because mediapipe detect hand there is no hand dependency. each video is 10 second long and get throughout 5 days in different times. totoal of 3000second videos for training. then that application firstly got only mcp, tip, and dip only. then i realized if i get 5 frame, sometimes a touch will break. because previous frame has part and next frame has next part which break whole touch. so i used 2 frame overlap. which make full touch also made the system responsive because now for each 2 frame shift and calculate touch. then i annotate each window. after that created system to train lstm. in there i realized with these text data it get less time to train. i firstly trained using jupiter notebooks. with this low time i realized i can run multiple traning quickly. so i created application to train many models in different architectures so i can see which model perform best and which architecture give low latency. on their i detect model cannot go beyond 82%. then i realized data gathering process has less flexibility because in that time i realized i need wrist coordiantes also so model understand hand moving windows in there model should not detect any touch. my first annotator was rigit so i was not able to get wrist coordinates. therefore i rewrote the annotator to capture every mediapipe coordinates also remove all fiterations. then i had to re annotate all the videos again. then i realized because data filteration removed from that initial step. now i have the ability to change filter values, etc. so i created 11 step filteration step. where data process in a pipeline. i remove low accuracy windows, hand moving windows, etc. and with twiks able to achieve 94% on LSTM and figure it out the LSTM perform with low latency than others. so then i created the detector application. in their first prototype developed and it was a succuss. then developed designer and detector with pyside6. which also worked and i added hand movement filteration, 1 elour filter in detector instead on traning time. so that make reliability higher and performance also higher. also i figure it out because i used many tags, now not entier layout need to visible, even with portion of visible layout i can detect because there are many tags over the layout which makes it is detectable. finally made some twiks to get accuracy. also on training time i realized on first data annotation iteration the mediapipe give accuracy score. i was not using it. so in second iteration i got everything from the mediapipe and use it also on the filteration step to remove all noicy and low accuracy windows. 